I want to preach as the Holy Spirit shall give me help from the topic, the anatomy of an overcomer.
Lord bless your word, bless your preacher.
Give us ears to hear your words, my mouth, in Jesus name.
Amen.
We don't know much about this particular woman.
We don't know her name.
We don't know anything about her family pedigree or her educational background.
We don't know anything about her social status, nor do we know anything about her political affiliation.
We don't know anything about her personality, nor do we know anything about her temperament.
We don't know anything about her preferences, nor do we know anything about her taste.
Yet, according to Matthew 5, given ballot verses 35, 25 to 34,
We know this woman is an overcomer.
According to Matthew 5 for 12 long years, this woman suffered from a debilitating, discouraging, depressing disorder of hemorrhaging blood.
We don't know the cause, we don't know the physiological
biological reason, yet every day for 12 years, this woman suffered from a debilitating, depressing, discouraging disorder.
Having suffered from this disorder for 12 years, this woman is physically sick, socially isolated,
emotionally exhausted, spiritually confused, financially drained, sick and tired of being sick and tired.
Yet, despite all that she is going through for these 12 years, this woman watch chapel is not defeated
is overwhelmed, but in the midst of being overwhelmed, this woman is an overcomer.
And on this last Sunday in February, I want to close out this African-American history month by encouraging every member friend of watch chapel who hears this word to light
This woman who overcame we too can be overcomers.
I don't care what the issue is, we can overcome.
Don't care how long we've been going through with what we've been going through, we can overcome.
Whether it is ageism, sexism, classism, racism, we can overcome.
Whether it's headache, heartbreak, adoration, helplessness, we can overcome.
Whether it's unemployment, underemployment, being undermined, we can overcome.
Whether it's not having enough money to support the vision that God has given you, we can overcome.
Whether it's stress, strife, sabotage, setback, we can overcome.
Whether it's confusion, criticism, chaos, drama, or trauma, we can overcome.
Like this woman suffered this debilitating condition for 12 long years.
not knowing when God was going to turn it around.
I've come by to encourage somebody who might be going through on this Sunday morning like this woman overcame what she was going through.
We too can overcome.
While we have the capacity to overcome, help me preach this watch chapel.
There's so many of us in the sanctuary of watch chapel right now, and who are tuned in, multimedia platforms, who are being overcome and overwhelmed by what we are going through.
I don't know who I'm talking to on this Sunday morning, but they
You can tell by the look on some of our faces based on what we're going through that we are not overcoming, but we are being overcome and we are being overwhelmed by what life has thrown our way.
Yet despite the temptation to be overcome and to be overwhelmed by what life has thrown our way like this woman overcame,
I've come by to encourage somebody to tap into what God has given you so we, like this woman, can overcome what life has thrown our way.
We don't know this woman's name, don't know much about this woman, but we can call this woman Sister Overcomer.
And this woman overcomers Watch Chapel, first of all, because she eliminates excuses.
The text says this woman's been suffering for 12 long years.
A debilitating disorder has sapped her energy, sapped her finances.
She has gone to doctor after doctor, yet the text says her condition has not gotten better, but it's grown worse.
She don't have the money that she had 12 years ago, doesn't have the energy that she had 12 years ago.
She is socially isolated.
She can't go to worship because this hemorrhaging disorder, she used to be a regular in worship, but she can't attend worship.
The church got live streams.
Some Sundays don't have live stream.
Other Sundays, so she can't tune in to worship.
Everybody is wondering what's going on with this woman because after 12 years, it ain't the doctors.
It got to be you.
But this woman hears about Jesus.
Come on, help me preach this.
She hears about Jesus.
Let me stop right there.
I don't know what exactly she heard, Dr.
Ballot, but she heard some good news about the power of Jesus to heal the sick, to raise the dead, to turn
People's lives around and based upon what she has heard about Jesus, this woman eliminates excuses that get him the way of her getting to the presence of Jesus.
This woman shouldn't be in the company of men in the first place.
This woman has been hemorrhaging for 12 years.
She is a social outcast.
shouldn't be in the presence of men, shouldn't be in the company of other people.
Yet this woman is an overcomer because she eliminates the excuses that get in the way of her healing.
And I'm talking to somebody on this Sunday morning, what if you and I just made up in our mind, Dr. Robinson, that we were going to eliminate excuses?
Do I have a witness on this Sunday morning?
If I had a nickel for every excuse I made in my life concerning why I couldn't do, why I'm not doing, why I ain't doing, why I ain't being, I know it's bad English, but it makes good sense.
If I had a nickel for every excuse that I made,
And I ain't talking about your excuses.
I'm talking about my excuses.
Where would we be if we had a nickel for every excuse that we made that got in the way of us doing what God said we could do and what we could be?
But this woman has the audacity and wherewithal to eliminate, I don't care if I'm a woman, I'ma get to Jesus.
I don't care if I'm hemorrhaging, I'ma get to Jesus.
I don't care if I'm poor, I'ma get to Jesus.
I don't care what folks say or think about me.
I'm in more than likely watch travel.
This woman ain't walking.
She's been hemorrhaging 12 years.
She's bit over crawling, trying to get to him.
Y'all ain't talking to me.
Trying to get to him, crawling step by step.
moment by moment getting to Jesus because she's eliminating her excuses.
Help me preach this word.
And if you and I want to be the overcomers that God says we can become, we got to eliminate excuses.
Can I preach on this Sunday morning?
Right now in Daytona Beach, Florida, there's a university, Bethune Cookman College and university that is a testimony to the power of people eliminating excuses.
Mary McLeod, Bethune started Bethune Cookman in the early 1900s with $1.50.
Not $1,000, not $15, but $1.50.
And right now, help me preach this, that school is educating men and women to the glory of God because a woman, a black woman, y'all ain't talking to me, eliminated excuses.
If we eliminate excuses, the sky is the limit.
If we eliminate excuses, vision batches with provision.
If we eliminate excuses, we can climb the wall.
We can walk through the valley.
If we eliminate excuses, what could God do with us?
This woman becomes an overcomer because she eliminates excuses.
But this woman becomes an overcomer.
because she develops a vocabulary of victory.
This woman talks her way into being blessed by the Lord Almighty God.
This woman doesn't say can't, which is a cuss word.
This woman doesn't say might a man, doesn't say what if we can't do it.
But this woman is so filled with faith, inspired by what she has heard about Jesus, that not only does she eliminate excuses, this woman develops a vocabulary of victory.
A vocabulary of victory is when we speak life.
A vocabulary of victory is when we say can.
A vocabulary of victory is when we say what is going to happen.
A vocabulary of victory is when we don't see the glass half empty, but we say it's half full.
A vocabulary of victory is when we don't say what we don't have, but we say what we don't have yet.
I'm preaching this to encourage somebody to change your language.
Change your language.
Change how you talk about yourself.
Change how you talk about your circumstances.
Change how you talk about what you're going through.
Change how you talk about your wife and husband.
Change how you talk about your children.
Change how you talk about black folk in America.
Change how you talk about the church.
Sometimes we are our own worst enemy.
Help me preach this.
Because we cuss ourselves.
We are so diagnostic that we talk down to ourselves.
Talk down about what we can do.
Talk down about ourselves.
What are the race of people?
Y'all ain't talking to me.
Cusses themselves.
Talks about what we look like.
Talks about what we can do.
Talks about what we can achieve.
My gosh, if we could just learn how to develop a vocabulary of victory, if I can just touch his clothes, I will be healed.
If I can touch the hymn of his garment, I'll be healed.
If I can just touch the hymn of his garment, I'll be healed.
Notice the woman's son saying, mate, but she says, we'll.
She says, can.
And she speaks to herself.
in such a way that she overcomes this 12-year circumstance because she believes that if she develops a vocabulary of victory, that's half the dog-owned battle.
Come on, help me preach this.
I ain't gonna preach too much longer, but I dare you to learn how to speak life.
Talk about can.
Talk about will.
Talk about shall.
talk about what we're going to do, how we're going to overcome, what we're going to see, how we're going to get the job, how we've already overcome, how we're celebrating what God has done.
Develop a vocabulary.
Let me see if I can make it plain a few days ago.
We celebrated the life and birthday of Abraham Lincoln.
And many of us know the story of Abraham Lincoln before he became the president.
Life for Abraham Lincoln, Anthony, was no crystal star.
Had tragedy after trauma, after tragedy, after trauma.
Buried his wife, had a nervous breakdown, found bankruptcy,
Lost multiple political campaigns, but in the midst of all that he was going through, he developed a vocabulary of victory and says, I may not do it this time, but give me one more chance.
Y'all ain't talking to me.
I'm gonna win the next election.
I thought bankruptcy, but I'm gonna get my money back together.
I buried this way, but God's gonna bless me with another wife.
Despite all that he went through, he didn't sing the blues, he didn't cry, woe is me, but he kept speaking life to himself and he virtually became one of the greatest presidents of this republic because he didn't say woe is me, he didn't say what ain't gonna happen, but he developed a vocabulary of victory and became the president of these United States because he talked himself
into some blessings.
I'm talking to somebody right now.
You better stop cussing yourself.
You better stop talking about what you can't do.
You better stop talking about what will never happen.
And you better learn how to talk yourself into the destiny that God has for you.
She overcomes, cause she eliminates excuses.
She overcomes.
because she has a vocabulary of victory, but she overcomes, because she holds on to hope.
12 long years, bleeding day after day, financially drained, socially isolated, but she holds on to hope.
Not 12 days, not 12 months.
But 12 years, 365 times 12, hemorrhaging.
No destiny on the horizon of when a cure is going to come.
But the woman holds on to hope.
I'm talking to somebody right now who is tempted to give up hope.
You don't find bankruptcy, but keep hope alive.
Can I preach the way I want to preach?
Can I close the way I want to close?
Jesse Jackson died the other day.
But y'all remember Jesse in 84 and 88.
And Jesse, if he did nothing else for black folk in America, he encouraged us to keep hope alive.
But before he said, keep hope alive, he said, I am somebody.
But then after I am somebody, he said, keep hope alive.
And I'm telling somebody right now, you better hold on to hope.
I don't care how dire the circumstance is.
Keep hope alive.
I don't care how bad your health is.
Hold on to hope.
I don't care how crazy your family is acting.
I don't care what the bank says.
You better hold on to hope.
I don't care what the doctor says.
I don't care what they say about your children.
You better hold on to hope.
Somebody knows if you keep hope alive.
God has a way of showing up like he showed up for this woman.
Jesus looked after somebody touched him and said, who touched me?
Because he felt the power leak out of him.
And once the power leaked out of him, Sister Girl Overcomer raised that Baptist finger and said it was me.
And he said, because you eliminated excuses.
Because you got a vocabulary of victory, and because you're holding on to hope, you're healed in Jesus' name.
The woman stood up back erect, head-held high, and walked off into the crowd.
And he said, go and face.
I've made you whole.
And somebody right now, you're healed by the power of the Lord.
You got what you've been seeking.
Because you're keeping hope alive.
My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness.
They are not trusts.
The sweetest reign that wholly lean on Jesus' name.
On Christ.
I feel like Halloween one time.
The Southern Rock I stand.
Oh!
I said, oh!
I said, all of the ground is sinking sand on Christ.
That's who we stand on.
That's who our power's on.
That's who we lay and move and have not been on Christ.
I'm the loser.
Thank God for Jesus on Christ.
Tell your neighbor you're an overcomeer.
You're an overcomer You're an overcomer You're an overcomer Tell him you're an overcomer Hallelujah Now here's the shop
Think of all that you've overcome already.
Come on, I'm talking to somebody.
Think of all.
Folk don't know.
Look, as fine as you are, folk don't know what you've been through.
Folk can't tell all that you've overcome.
Come on, I need some overcomers, just to praise the Lord.
You don't know that came cancer.
You don't know that came hell.
You don't know that came bankruptcy.
You don't know what can we possess it?
You've been appraised?
you've overcome, but you know, you know what you've overcome.
Some of you praising God right now, you just, you don't forgot some of the stuff you've overcame, but now you remember it.
For closure, but now I got good credit.
but now I got good friends.
Trauma and trauma.
And now I know who I had to choose.
And somebody this morning, my sister, my brother, you're not saved.
You don't know Jesus Christ as your savior.
I want you to walk down the aisle from wherever you are, my sister.
Walk down the aisle from wherever you are, my brother.
You're here.
You may be saved, but you don't have a church home.
Today's the day for you to make watch to help with your church family.
You're not saved or you need a church home.
I want you to walk down the aisle right now from wherever you are.
Today is the day for you to accept Jesus Christ as your savior.
Today is the day for you to unite with watch chapel as a church family.
You may be online.
You want to make watch chapel your church family.
You can connect with us online.
But you're here right now.
You're not saved.
Well, you are saved, but you don't have a church home.
Come on, brother.
Come on, sister.
I don't want you to put this off.
Come on, walk down the aisle right now.
I wonder if he's talking to me.
Yes, I'm talking to you.
Come on, brother, come on, sister.
Let today be the day where you accept Jesus as your savior.
Let today be the day where you unite with Watchtower.
I'm talking to you.
Just walk down the aisle right now.
Walk down the aisle, brother.
Walk down the aisle, sister.
Your family is going to follow you.
Your children, your wives, they're gonna follow you.
Come on, brother.
You have the wherewithal to overcome.
You have the where, you have the stuff, the intestinal fortitude, the off to overcome.
Alcoholism, you can overcome.
I'm talking real now.
You can overcome drama.
God be praised for your brother.
God be praised for you.
You can overcome the power of God.
You can overcome sister, brother, you're here.
His brother's already made the first step.
Maybe somebody else right now, you can overcome.
I'm talking to you with the power of the Holy Spirit.
With Jesus walking alongside of you, you can overcome addiction, drama, stuff, mess, ratchetness, can overcome.
It's some ex ratchet folk all up in here.
Come on now, you just ain't nobody admitting it, buddy.
You know what I'm saying?
X, ratchet folk who been delivered.
Amen.
Been set free.
You ain't wearing suits and ties today.
We got on red bottoms today, but shut up.
Y'all know sister girl 40 years ago.
Amen.
Y'all know him 30 years ago.
He a deacon now.
Maybe somebody else, come on down to our brother.
Come on down to the our sister.
Repeat after me, watch out.
Well, God, I thank you for the gift of salvation.
I admit that I'm a sinner.
I believe Jesus died for me on the cross of Calvary for the salvation of my sins.
And I confess Jesus Christ
as Savior and Lord of my life.
And I'm going to do what He tells me to do so I can be who He wants me to be.
Amen.
If that's the first time you've prayed that prayer, I want you to walk forward.
If you prayed that prayer before, you died just that you comprehended, be seated.
Let's thank God for this brother who has come today.
Amen.
We thank God for Dr. Ballad being in worship today.
Thank God for my mother and God and mother being here.
Amen.
Thank God for Deacon Anthony McAllister, fellow Deacon from Galilee.
Watch chapel.
Don't forget Thursday night, civic engagement experience.
Meet me over in the fellowship hall.
Help me sell out of books.
Amen.
Help me sell out.
is not benefiting me, amen, is benefiting you.
Look at your neighbor, say, it's blessing you.
Amen, let's stand to our feet, amen.
May the grace of our Lord and Savior, the love of God, fellowship of the Holy Spirit, rest rule that about with us until we shall meet again the people of God, say amen.
Amen.